Your BraillePen24 can be used as a braille display with popular PC screen readers such
as JAWS, NVDA, and others. The PC or Notebook must provide a wireless Bluetooth interface (built-in or by using a Bluetooth dongle). We recommend that Windows 10 or above connect the mentioned screen readers via Bluetooth.
There are two digital interface modes available for the Braille terminal connection: HID (Human Interface Device) or serial. The serial connection is the legacy mode that is used on most of the existing screen readers. HID is the new standard and connects automatically, without any additional configuration but the regular pairing of your devices. 

For the serial connection in some cases you will need to know the virtual serial port that you will use To find out which virtual serial port is provided by a Bluetooth or USB interface in Windows:
1. Open the Control Panel (Start/Settings/Control Panel).
2. Select “System” from the list.
3. In the open window, select the tab “Hardware.”
4. On this tab, click on “Device Manager.”
5. open the branch “Ports (COM and LPT)” in the Device Manager's tree view.
6. Search for something similar to “standard serial over Bluetooth port (COM 13)”. There may be more of these. Take note of the number after the COM.
7. This is the number of the virtual COM port the device is connected to. The screen reader wants to know this port.
You will see two ports on Bluetooth—one outgoing and one incoming. We want to use the outgoing port to connect. When connected using Bluetooth, the serial port your device uses may also be found in the Properties of your connected device in the Bluetooth Manager.
Some screen readers do not support higher values of COM Ports. In that case, you should change the port number. Do this by selecting the “Port (COM and LPT)” branch in Device Manager as described above, and right-click on the Port you want to change (Shift-F10 will do the same). The context menu opens, and you can click on “Properties.” Then click on the tab “Port settings” and the “Advanced” button. In the window now opening is a List Box, “COM Port Number,” where you can choose a free port number. Numbers not available will be marked.

Please note that for some screen readers you may have two connections active simultaneously: HID and serial. You will have to choose which you want to use in the Devices menu of the BraillePen24.

JAWS
A JAWS driver for BraillePen24 is included with the JAWS software.

Other Screen Readers
The BraillePen24 is compatible with other screen readers, like NVDA. It works with various screen readers through an HID or serial interface, so in some cases, when connecting over Bluetooth, you may see your device on the list twice—once as a serial interface and another as an HID (Human Interface Device).